welcome back to an honest movie recap
and review
today we look at a sci-fi action
thriller all the way back from 1997.
i give you starship troopers
the movie stars as a newsreel shows the
bug war in full swing as the mobile
infantry are currently on the retreat
from their arachnid foes
it's here the news reporter is killed
live on air before a soldier
takes a debilitating blow to the thigh
before looking like being eaten we then
joined our protagonist
johnny rico a chiseled jawed high
schooler played by at the time
29 year old casper van dien as he's
flirting with his high school sweetheart
carmony banner is played by the stunning
denise richards as both his best friend
carl jenkins neil patrick harris and
dizzy flores dinah meyer
watch on did i mention rico's one armed
former soldier now teacher portrayed by
the legendary michelin side interrupts
rico's attempts at flirting
well he does after class finishes rico
goes to find out his math results
failing massively with a score of 35
at the same time ibanez scores an
impressive 97
to make matters worse best friend carl
jenkins announces to the full school
rico's poor score
embarrassing him massively it's here
carl points out to rico that it's not
just carmen who wants it
but also dizzy though at this point riku
only has eyes for his high school
sweetheart back in class carmen shows
how weak of a stomach she has as they
dissect
bugs while dizzy finds it hilarious
after school we join johnny
trying to see if he is sidekicking like
his best friend carl
it's apparent he doesn't have the
ability but it highlights how strong
cars psychic abilities
truly are the day before graduation
arrives
we have rico playing the future version
of football
where rico and dizzy combine to win the
title from their fiercest rivals
it's here we are introduced to zander
barclow another love interest for carmen
an arrival for rico before the ball rico
is confronted by his family as he's
intending to enlist
his family are not pleased with his
recent decision and threatened that he
would be disowned if he follows through
with doing this
ball takes place that night in which
rico has a heart to heart with both
dizzy
and gene razak played by michael
ironside
the following morning rico carmen and
carl decide
to enlist carmen gets the role she wants
to join fleet and become a pilot
carl gets enrolled as a military
intelligence
unfortunately for rico he doesn't
qualify for anything
other than being a grunt in the mobile
infantry going their separate ways rico
is disowned by his family
carmen being forced to tell johnny she
loves him for the very first time
and deep down knowing she probably
doesn't we then join rico back at basic
training
it becomes apparent how tough you have
to be to be in the mobile infantry
this is shown as major zim the training
structure
breaks a recruit's arm just as dizzy
flores turns up
before she herself is not unconscious by
the same as rico looks on
smiling it's here we are introduced to
rico's new right hand man
and new best friend ace a fast talking
fool who wants to make a career
in the mobile infantry at the same time
rico rebuffs
dizzy's continued advances we see a
glimpse of carmen
flight training and it shows just how
reckless and gull-hell of a pilot she is
but highly talented as she joins her
first crew
she finds her co-pilot to be no other
than xander barcelona
rico through a bit of luck and support
from dizzy's training progresses finds
himself as the new squad leader
unfortunately through some poor judgment
one of rico's troopers is killed in an
accident
carrying the weight of the blame rico is
demoted and
sentenced to 10 administrative lashes
after receiving his punishment rico
decides to quit the mobile infantry
but before he leaves a meteorite strikes
the earth
which had been dispatched by the bugs
hitting his hometown
and killing all his family rico has his
papers torn up as the federation
prepares for war and stays within the
mobile infantry
and oh yes carmen don't rico after
starting a relationship
with barcelona before their first drop
rico meets carmen on her ship
it's here it becomes apparent what
happened between her and xander
feinstein breaks out but is swiftly
brought to a conclusion
rico and his friends are going down in
the first wave on clendathu
the bug's home planet after killing a
few plasma bugs the arachnids swarmed
the mobile infantry
literally ripping them to shreds all
while fleet is being destroyed by plasma
lights
back on the ground most of rico's squad
has been wiped out as rico covers their
retreats
it's here rico after taking down several
bugs
is struck in the thigh the same person
who was struggling that
of the movie it's here we see the death
of johnny recall the screen goes black
that is about to be killed
back in space carmen searches the list
of the dead to find rico never made it
she's here comforted again by barcelona
but wait
can it be rico is alive
he was rescued and while his wounds are
being healed in a healing tank
he is visited by ace dizzy and others
it's decided
the first attack was a disaster and a
new strategy
is to take place from here rico and the
others join a new squad
their lieutenant turns out to be no
other than rico and dizzy's former
science teacher
gene razak who was re-joined the mobile
infantry during their next drop the
mobile inventory bombed most of the
arachnid before mopping up the remaining
books
it's here rico starts to show how he has
started to mature into not only a true
soldier
but also a leader he does this by
besting a fire-breathing
bear moth in single combat and taking
the position of corporal
as the former had lost our arm during
the attack
as night sets in rico under the guidance
of razak realizes that life
is short and spends the night with dizzy
but
before passion could commence a distress
call comes from whiskey outpost comes
over the antenna
and the squad has to move out but not
before they have a chance to consummate
their new relationship as the squad
heads to whiskey outpost the trooper on
the radio is
taken by a new flying arachnid
lieutenant razak
kills him putting him out of his misery
before telling the squad that he would
expect them all
to do the same for him all before making
rico
active sergeant and to take points the
unit reaches an overrun whiskey outpost
as they are securing it they find a
general hiding inside the compound
the only survivor they send a message to
fleet for pickup
as they find out how the bugs gained
entry into the outpost
through the floor it's also revealed the
bugs have been sucking out the brains of
the
infantry and that who's actually sent
the distress signal drawing them to the
outpost
trapping the squad back outside the
arachnid attack
thousands upon thousands swung the base
it's here
our valiant roughnecks make a last stand
wave after wave go down but it looks
hopeless for
our heroes the general is killed to the
amusement of all and as it looks
hopeless
a drop ship arrives for retrieval it's
here we lose lieutenant razak
a sad loss but to make it worse as they
look to retreat
dizzy struck from behind pierced
multiple times
the drop pad piloted by carmen and
xander gets away just in time
getting them all to safety but only as
dizzy dies
in rico's arms it's here carmen finds
out that rico
is still alive back on the ship the
roger young
dizzy has a funeral after the funeral
now military intelligence commander
carl jenkins arrives promotes ricoh to
lieutenant
before ordering them back to planet p to
capture
their brain book now back on planet p
rico and ace realise
how young the new line of troopers are
in a twisted turn of events
common ship goes down both her and
xander
make it to an escape pod before crashing
on the planet
here they fight off a few bugs before
appearing to be killed
as rico is searching for the brain book
he gets a feeling
carmen is still alive and how to get to
her he leaves his squad
just him ace and sugar watkins to go
find carmen when he finds her it's too
late for xander who has just had his
brain sucked out by the brain book
the same one they had been sent to
capture they rescue comedy basners
but watkins is mortally wounded and
makes a last stand
allowing the others to escape back
outside news comes out that the brain
bug has been captured
it's here we find out that the bug was
cornered and captured
by now private zim who has busted his
ass
back to private so he could fight in the
bug war
a new hero of the federation carl jenkin
arrives to read the mind of the book
he announces the book is afraid as the
troopers celebrate
rico carmen and carl walk off army name
as rico ask if he was the one
who told him how to find carmen the
movie ends with hope that mankind can
come together
to destroy the books once and for all
starship troopers is visually stunning a
classic
90s action movie with action gore
and a little bit of comedy thrown into
the mix the acting is phenomenal
the concept though basic is enjoyable
and is a great popcorn movie to sit back
and enjoy if you enjoyed our recap and
reviews
don't forget to hit both that like and
subscribe button as it really helps us
grow
and until next time take care stay safe
and i'll see you soon and don't forget
the only good book
is a dead book